ENG FEC47
status of E-banking in India. 
7.45 mins 

0.06-0.10

Hello all, 
today we'll discuss about the status of E-banking in India. 
FEC_47_001          0.11 – 0.13
FEC_47_002          0.14 – 0.19
At the end of this session, you all will be able to understand about the status of E-banking in India. 
FEC_47_003          0.20 – 1.39
Now, e-banking has become an integral part of banking system in India. 
So, E banking is something which is a normal thing nowadays, that we are using E- banking or we are using Internet Banking. 
So, electronic banking is a very commonly used scenario and it has become a part or just a normal lifestyle that if you're going for a banking, then E-banking is there. 
So, the credit of launching the E banking or the internet banking in India, it goes to ICICI banks, 
ICICI banks are responsible for launching the internet banking in India 
and after that comes Citibank and HDFC Bank, which followed the internet banking services in nineteen ninety nine. 
Now, then came the Government of India. 
So, the government of India they enacted the IT act two thousand, which came into effect from seventeenth October two thousand, which actually provided the legal recognition to electronic transactions and other means of E commerce. 
So, the IT Act, two thousand was the one which legally and officially recognized the electronic transactions in India.
FEC_47_004          1.40 – 2.06
Now, the reserve bank 
reserve bank is monitoring and they are the people who are reviewing the legal and all other requirements of E banking on a continuous basis to make sure that the E banking services is going on without any interrupted services or any problems and without any threat to the financial stability. 
FEC_47_005          2.07 – 2.31
But, who is RB?I 
RBI is Reserve Bank of India. 
It is a central bank of India and it is a regulatory body which is responsible for regulating the Indian banking system. 
So, RBI is under the Ministry of Finance, government of India, and they are responsible for control for issuing and maintaining the supply of Indian rupee. 
FEC_47_006          2.32 – 3.01
Now, there are various services which are provided through E banking in India. 
And you can see that we have almost all the services which an internet banking can provide 
telephone banking, Electronic Clearing cards, doorstep banking, shopping, fund transfer, electronic fund transfer system, tele banking, fixed deposit, ATMs, mobile banking, bill payments, smart cards, internet banking, Electronic Clearing services, investing, insurance 
FEC_47_007          3.02 – 4.01
so, the RBI’s annual report. 
So, according to the annual report of RBI of year twenty twenty-twenty twenty one, they stated the payment system, it recorded a growth of approximately twenty six point two percent in terms of volume on top of the expansion of forty four point two percent in the previous year. 
So, there are some key facts that are there. 
Basically the private sector banks they represent about sixty seven percent of point of sale terminal market while public sector bank accounts for twenty seven percent. 
So, private sector they have a sixty seven percent of share in your POS terminals and the public sector banks they account for approximately twenty seven percent. 
And the payment banks, they are accounted for five percent market share and foreign banks accounted for one percent. 
FEC_47_008          4.02 – 4.29
Now, the total number of cards that were there in the circulation, was nine sixty point two five million as of March twenty twenty one. 
And out of these nine sixty point two five million, eight ninety eight point two zero million debit cards are there, and sixty two point zero five million credit cards are there. 
So up to eight percent of debit cards and seven percent of credit cards Were in circulation. 
FEC_47_009          4.30 – 5.27
Then there were two point two zero billion prepaid payments instruments in the country. 
And out of those two point two zero billion prepaid payments, one eighty nine point nine three  million, It comprised of prepaid cards, and two point one billion, they comprised of mobile wallets. 
So number of transaction through mobile wallets in first quarter of twenty twenty one was approximately one point one three billion and value was around four hundred and eleven point seven five billion INR. 
So this transaction, which we're talking about, it includes purchase of goods and services and fund transfer as well through the mobile wallets. 
So, this indicated that the growth of using the mobile wallets is increasing rapidly. 
FEC_47_010          5.28 – 6.04
Then the consumer made eight point three two billion mobile based payments, whereas net banking or internet browser based transactions were over nine thirty seven point one six Millions. 
So more and more people are inclined to mobile based payments now. 
So in terms of values, if we talk about then, INR thirty one point nine eight trillion was transacted through mobile, while one thirty one point three four trillion INR was transacted through the internet itself. 
FEC_47_011          6.05 – 6.51
Then out of total UPI volume fifty five percent transactions were person to person, while forty five percent were person to merchants. 
So it clocked over two point seven three billion transactions in volume and breached the five trillion transaction in terms of value. 
Now the transaction volume passing through your Bharat bill payments central unit, that is, the BBPCU. 
In first quarter of twenty twenty one, it stood at ninety point seven one billion, while the value of transaction was one thirty four point seven zero billion. 
So it registered a growth rate of approximately ninety nine percent and one twenty nine percent in volume and value respectively, against the quarter one of twenty twenty 
FEC_47_012          6.52 – 7.34
then your AePS transactions, that is, offers, your BHIM, Aadhaar Pay, in first quarter of twenty twenty one it recorded a substantial volume of over four forty nine point four five million transactions. 
So basically, one twenty percent growth was being visible over the twenty twenty quarter one. 
So it processed transaction worth six thirty three point three eight billion INR and the increase was of approximately ninety three percent over the first quarter of twenty ten. 
So in ten or eleven years there was an increase of ninety three percent. 
FEC_47_013          7.35 – 7.42
So let's summarize what we have talked about today. 
today we learned about the status of E- banking in India. 
So that is all for today. 
Thank you