ENG FEC46
advantages and disadvantages of E-banking. 
17.10 mins 

0.06-0.11

Hello all
Today, we will be talking about the advantages and disadvantages of E- banking 
FEC_46_001          0.12 – 0.15
FEC_46_002          0.16 – 0.23
at the end of this session you all will be able to understand that what are advantages and what are disadvantages of E-banking. 
FEC_46_003          0.24 – 0.43
Let's start with the advantages 
First of all convenience, faster service, service quality, twenty four seven facility, high liquidity, discounts, high interest rates, transfer assistance, monitoring service, online bill payment
FEC_46_004          0.44 – 2.17
when we are talking about the advantages of E- banking, although we all have an idea that what E- banking is all about, right, we also know that how E- banking has helped us, how it has made our lives easier. 
So, when we talk about convenience that we are well aware, E- banking has made all the financial activities for different kinds of users very easy, right, 
either you are a business, either you are a merchant, you deliver, are a supplier or you are a normal consumer, 
for every person, the E- banking has made it very easy to do all the financial activities, 
now, the need of going to the bank has been reduced, we cannot say finished, because there might be some or the other times as you have to go to the bank. 
But when we talk about mostly, it has been reduced, right, so people don't need to go to bank to access their bank accounts, we can do it while sitting at home anytime, 
for the convenience of the customers, banking systems have created virtual banking systems that may be accessed from any location at any time 
also, we have a customer support as well available with us so the convenience is something which has increased manifold. 
Now, even if you have some doubt or some problem you come across, then for that also we have assistants available also, virtual assistants that can help us
FEC_46_005          2.17 – 3.07
faster service, 
see when you don't have to go and wait in the queue, you do not have to visit to a branch physically, you do not have to devote special time for doing your banking services, then obviously, from here or you can see from there, or from one or the other side, it is saving a lot and a lot of time, right. 
And because you have a faster service, you can make the bill payments in seconds, you can make the transfer in seconds. 
So you can make the purchases in seconds, so all these things have led to faster services. 
Now you don't have to wait in the ATM line to get the cash and then go to a store and buy a particular product. 
Instant money transfer between accounts are possible with a direct payment option. 
And people don't have to wait in line to pay their bills or transfer any kind of money
FEC_46_006          3.08 – 4.18
Then comes service quality 
the internet banking has, we all know, improved the quality of the service to a great extent. 
Now, first of all, we can do transactions smoothly from anywhere, there are very less times that we face problems during transactions and there are very less banks with whom we might be facing a problem during transactions. 
Otherwise, all the transactions are done smoothly. 
All the transactions are done in just no time. 
And all the banks are easily collaborated with all your gateways, payment gateways and your wallets. 
So you can make the payments whenever wherever you want to. 
Right, so basically using online banking to make payments is quick, secure and effortless and easy E-banking Apps, customer may keep track of all the account related transactions. 
Also, now you have virtual assistants available, which was not available before 
so if you had any query, you have to go to the bank and ask them 
but with virtual assistants, you can just sit at your home, open your phone or your laptop and you can get the problem solved. 
FEC_46_007          4.19 – 5.44
Next comes, twenty four seven facility 
now you don't have to go to the bank physically for doing the banking activities. 
You just have to sit at home and operate your phone or laptop. 
So that means that you have access to your bank around the clock, right, you have access to a bank twenty four hours a day. 
There is no off, there is nothing at all. 
then you can transfer money any day. 
You can make a business purchase any day, you don't have to worry about anything at all. 
So customers can access banking services and products anytime from any location 
then comes high liquidity 
you can transfer money and utilise any time which is greatest advantage to access your Internet banking right 
so you Don't need to visit the banks for transferring money and also you can transfer money as many times as you want, like you can make the payments from one particular app if not, then other. 
So, it's like that, you can make, although we have banks who have applied, like from one bank, you can only make online payments this much or the minimum amount payment is there, that only this much amount payment can be done in a day or this much transactions can be done through wallet or through that, that is for your security purpose, that has been applied. 
But again, you have the option, right. 
FEC_46_008          5.45 – 6.35
Discount 
people do benefit from several discount program in stores that accept credit and debit cards, 
see, there are many stores, which are offering you, okay, if you have this particular credit card, or this particular debit card, when you get five percent Extra or ten percent Extra or something like that
high interest rate, 
internet banking provides you with low interest rate on your mortgage loans, other than banks, 
operational cost is also low, which tends to save an amount that is beneficial for the customer 
see, if you apply loan via your online banking, then all the paperwork reduces, all the physical efforts of going and coming, all these things are reduced. 
So the interest rate also gets reduced, if you are applying for the loan. 
FEC_46_009          6.36 – 7.40
then, transfer assistance
if talked about that, there is a virtual banking system is there which is giving you a transfer of money facility twenty four seven, three sixty five days. 
Also you're getting a virtual assistant with you, wherein if your money gets stuck, or you get stuck somewhere, you can always ask for the help. 
So you need not be performing any transaction within working hours and you can do at your convenience. 
Then comes monitoring service, 
see, when you have everything online, under your nose, then obviously you can monitor your whole account properly, 
you can see how much is in there in your savings account, how much interest you have compiled, how much time is left for your FD, or how many FDs you have in your bank account, 
then how much money you have, what are all the transactions that has been done in past one month, in past one day, or today, anything, so you can keep a total complete check on your account. 
FEC_46_010          7.41 – 8.28
then comes online bill payments, 
see, all the bills can be paid online, you don't need to have to stand in lines anymore, 
you don't have to go to a particular office to pay the bill 
earlier, when you have to pay electricity bill, you have to go to your nearby area of electricity center. 
And there you have to stand in the line and then you have to pay the bill. 
Similarly, same thing was there for telephone. 
But then there were other programs that came wherein you can pay the bill at your nearby stores, some small stores were given access it you can pay the bill there. 
But now everything has been eliminated. 
You can simply pay your bills online via your phone or your laptop, right. 
So this was possible due to E-banking
FEC_46_011          8.29 – 9.09
now talking about some of the disadvantages
e-banking is a boon. 
You can say a gift to the mankind, but also it comes with some drawbacks. 
The biggest drawback of E-banking is security problems, 
then you have a high startup cost, 
then lack of direct contact between customers and bank officers, 
then there might some transaction issues. 
The training and development is another issue, then long process to use the E banking. 
And it might be challenging for user. 
There is no cash deposit platform available with us. 
So let's talk about these disadvantages in detail. 
FEC_46_012          9.10 – 10.32
The first one is your security problems
You're all well aware that online, there are thieves, right? 
There are hackers. 
There are people who are continuously looking to somehow steal your money, to somehow steal your data, to somehow steal your information to get the money or to get to your bank account. 
So online security is a very big problem and financial information can be stolen. 
So the financial losses can be created 
So this will always be a problem. 
All we have to do is, all we can do is, to make sure that we are doing all the transactions securely. 
We are following all the rules properly and we are making sure that security is right and uptight
then high set up costs
the initial setup cost for E banking is a little high, although later on, it is very low cost, it is giving you a lot more profit than the initial cost. 
But again, the setup cost is high. 
that means the setup costs for different computers, software, hardware, modem and internet network, all these if you combine, its you will see, okay, it's quite high, but otherwise it is giving you a lot of profit. 
FEC_46_013          10.33 – 12.14
So, this is one thing, obviously when you are doing or you are dealing with the online, then there will be a lack of direct contact between customer and the banking officer. 
When you are doing all the transactions online, why do you need a banking officer, unless and until you come across something which you do not know how to do it, or you're not able to get it through the virtual assistants. 
So, there might be some particular or peculiar point wherein you cannot put your hands to, then only you will contact the banking officer. 
Otherwise you don't know who is working at a bank, who is there at the bank, or you do not have any kind of link between the banking officer and customer. 
So online banking requires effective customer service for handling issue faced by the user. 
But lack of customer support creates disappointment among the customers. 
There are some online payments, which will not be reflected in the system, due to technical issues creating insecurity among the customers 
see when you're talking on the phone that this transaction is not taking place. 
So it might be possible that the transaction problem is not from your side. 
But the problem is initially, you can say maybe you done payment through an E wallet, let's take Google Pay. 
So problem might be at the Google Pay and not your bank account. 
So in that scenario, obviously, the panic will be created among the persons who have done the Google pay, right. 
So bank cannot help it. 
So we are not face to face, we cannot claim to them to help us, that we have made the payment, they haven't seen us making the payment because there is no cheque or cash deposited. 
FEC_46_014          12.15 – 13.54
Then comes transaction issues. 
See, if your banking server goes down, then all transaction fails. 
there are times when you're not able to make the payments, because your bank might have some technical error or some technical issue they might be facing, wherein they fail to do any payment, right, and then when they fail to do any payment then what happens? 
then you are stuck there and you are not able to do to payment till the time being your technical problem is not resolved with the bank. 
So it happened with me a few times. 
I was using these digital wallets to make the payment at the normal supermarket. 
So I went there shopping, I shopped for around three-four rupees, or I bought all the grocery for my house. 
And then while making the payment, what happened? 
They said the bank is currently not available due to some technical problem. 
Now I'm stuck
So what will I do? 
Either I will need a cast to deposit the money, because I'm not able to transfer it online. 
Now, I'm not even sure that my card will work here or not because my bank server is down. 
But luckily I waited for ten to fifteen minutes and my card worked, then also I was not able to make the payments through digital wallet, right, so I have to use my card to meet the payment. 
So that is the issue which you can face while we're talking about the E-banking. 
FEC_46_015          13.15 – 14.29
Now, training and developing 
see banks need to conduct training and development program for employees so that they can provide you with a quality online service to give the desired customer experience 
So for training and development also, again banks first of all they need professionals, then they need people who are able to understand whatever is going on, then they need a huge investment to train and to provide an effective service. 
And then it is very important, if even one person is not trained properly can lead to a problem. 
FEC_46_016          14.30 – 15.37
Now long process to use E-banking. 
In certain nations, government bank offer online banking through completion of a one application. 
Their application isn't approved before allowing access to security password to log in. 
And to properly login, you must download the relevant bank here and fill out the required fields. 
So using E-banking is not that you have downloaded the app, you just make your ID and password and it is done. 
So it's a complete process. 
You should have your login ID already that bank will issue you, If you opt for the mobile banking or if you opt for the Internet banking, then bank will first issue you and then you have to feed that. 
But since you have a complicated password, then you will have to change it. 
But before that you have to fill in all your details, you have to register yourself to start the E-banking. 
Some banks have a very easy process, it's similar to like just logging in and logging out. 
But some banks do need a rigorous, thorough filling out of lots of forms. 
FEC_46_017          15.38 – 16.59
It might be very challenging for beginners, for you it might be very easy. 
But for people who have been going to banks and getting their checkbook filled, getting their money deposited by the others from last, I don't know how many years, then for them, it is very difficult to first of all, trust the system, to get into the system and to work with the system. 
if a prompt and proper assistance was not provided to them. 
So, clients generally give up and they will say, I don't want to go into all this, I was better with my traditional bank, 
I go to bank and withdraw money, I go to bank and deposit the money, that is easier for me, this was so complicated for me, 
I cannot understand all E-banking at all. 
So, to change your mindset, you have to train them properly. 
And you have to make sure that they do not find the E- banking, all the tasks very complex right. 
Then you do not have any cash deposit platform. 
There is no platform for Depositing cash, 
you have to visit your local branch or an ATM machine, nowadays, have been set in many places wherein you have to deposit cash. 
FEC_46_018          17.00 – 17.09
Let's summarize what we have learned today. 
Today we discussed about advantages and disadvantages of E-banking. 
that is all for today. 
Thank you