
ENG FEC48
E-trading meaning. 
8.46 mins 

0.06-0.10
Hello all, 
today we will talk about E-trading. 
FEC_48_001          0.11 – 0.13
FEC_48_002          0.14 – 0.19
At the end of the session, you will be able to understand that what is E-trading? 
FEC_48_003          0.20 – 3.15
Now, let's talk about first of all, E-trading 
nowadays, what is E-trading? 
Trading is not that you are going to a broker and you are asking them what is the shares today and then you invest, but trading is now online, 
it has become a electronic method of trading, 
but what exactly it is 
online trading or your E trading is a method which facilitates beyond and selling of your financial instruments, such as mutual funds, or equities, or bonds or derivatives, stocks, EFTs, and commodities through your electronic interface. 
So, today, in today's scenario, the youth have become very much aware. 
Now, they are investing in stocks, they are investing in, I mean, almost everybody who is earning, they want to invest their money somehow. 
And they're not just buying properties. 
They're not just buying gold and silver and jewelry. 
But they are investing, they're doing trading. 
They're buying mutual funds, they are investing in SIP's, they're purchasing the bonds, they're purchasing the BPS. 
So there are various ways of doing online trading. 
And today, almost everyone is being part of that scenario, 
How's it possible? 
trading has become a lot easier when it becomes online
with online trading, you can analyze things on your own, you can see and you can decide, you can make your decision on your own, that where should I invest, how much should I invest and how I should invest? 
All these things are available with you all 
nowadays banks with their internet banking has given you a very easy facilities
if you have a bank account with some bank, then they will give you a very easy way, they will teach you how to do trading online and they will guide you to do the trading. 
So, basically, it is a method of trading stocks, currencies through electronic stock market. 
Here an online broker is a brokerage firm that offers services on the internet. 
So, basically, we have a brokerage firm that makes online trading platforms available to anyone nowadays who wishes to trade in the financial security 
like everything has gone online, similarly trading has also gone online. 
So, there are various brokerage firms available, which is providing you an online platform only where you can do trade and however you want to do the trade you can do now, 
FEC_48_004          3.16 – 4.23
we will talk about stock market 
what was the traditional methods 
Traditionally, when anyone wants to invest money in the stocks, what they have to do is, they used to call a brokerage firm and they have to ask for putting in a request to buy a stock of a particular company for a specific amount. 
Now, the broker would let them know the market price of the stock, and once they will confirm the market price, and once the customer has confirmed okay, this is the market price and okay let's invest here, then they would confirm the order 
After the order has been confirmed, then the user has confirmed this trading account. 
So the broker fees and the time period required for the order, then the order would get placed on the stock exchange. 
So basically, first of all, the trading account, they have created, and then they have given some broker’s fees, whatever that is, and a time period that is required for the particular order, and then finally your order will be placed at the stock exchange. 
FEC_48_005          4.24 – 5.19
How does your online trading work?
so when a user places an order for buying any particular stock through online platform, his order gets saved in the database of the trading member platform and the exchange, both. 
So this data is then used to look across all the platforms that are selling that particular stock and they will display the result with the best price available. 
So it's like, if you need something, you put in there, then you will get a list of all the particular sellers who are selling that particular stock. 
So if price matches the user’s demand then he confirms order, the process is validated by both parties. 
And after all that is completed, the broker usually has three days to complete the settlement of the money and hence money is automatically transferred to your bank account. 
FEC_48_006          5.20 – 5.55
Now, what are trading platforms? 
See, trading platforms are those software systems which are used to execute and manage the market positions. 
trading platforms, they can offer an easy to use interface, but basic order entry screens for beginner investors. 
Basically, these platforms can also offer more sophisticated tools, like real time streaming codes, advanced charting tools, like news feed, educational resources, and access to proprietary research data. 
FEC_48_007          5.56 – 6.10
So we have various traders and investors. 
And these traders and investors should consider fee and features when comparing the trading platforms. 
Interactive broker is rated highly as a trading platform or an online broker for advanced traders. 
FEC_48_008          6.11 – 6.49
Now, what are the things to remember before you start the online trade? 
First of all, check whether your stock broker has online trading license or not. 
You have to make sure that whoever you are dealing with, whether they do have a valid license or not, 
and do not ever trade from a shared computer or a shared laptop, or on a shared internet connection. 
Your details might be stolen easily. 
Always make sure that your device is protected from virus attacks. 
And you have a good antivirus software installed. 
FEC_48_009          6.50 – 7.38
Don't ever forget to log out of your account, once trading session is over. 
Because otherwise your information could be used or misused by some other person. 
And never select option of ‘remember me’, any password or any user name related to your online trading account. 
Make sure you take up an online trading course for learning the basics of trading and the stock market. 
See, before investing in anything, before dealing with anything, you should be well aware of what or where you are going. 
So always remember to take a proper guidance or to take a proper course to have a proper ‘know how’ to proceed further. 
FEC_48_010          7.39 – 8.03
Now, there are a few brokers who offer online trading facility. 
And what are those, let's see 
we have zerodha training, angel broking trading,
There is ICICI direct trading, five paisa, Share Khan, HDFC secure trading
These are few of the top brokers that we have, although there are lots and lots of brokers that are available. 
FEC_48_011          8.04 – 8.38
We have upstox 
There are more names
IIFL, Axis trading, SAMCO trading, Motilal Oswal trading. 
all these are your online trading facilities that you have, here you can open an account and you will start trading. 
So these are just few of the top brokers that are there, but there are lots and lots more top brokers. 
But remember, always go with the broker who are authentic. 
Do not go for someone who's providing you with less rate, but you're not sure about the authenticity. 
FEC_48_011          8.39 – 8.44
Let's summarize what we have learned today. 
We talked about E-trading. 
That is all for today. 
Thank you