Topic: ASM_1 Advertising Agencies
ENG APS45 
Duration: 16:14

   0.03-0.05
Welcome students. 
APS45_slides_still001   0.06-0.11
Today we will discuss about advertising agencies. 
APS45_slides_still002   0.12-0.24
So what is an advertising agency? 
An advertising agency is just like a trailer. 
It creates the ads, plans how, when and where it should be delivered,
 APS45_slides_still003   0.25-1.12
and hand it over to the client. 
Advertising agencies are mostly not dependent on any organizations. 
These agencies take all the efforts for selling the products of the client. 
They have a group of people expert in their particular fields, thus helping the companies or organization to reach their target customer in an easy and simple way.
The first advertising agency was William Taylor, in Seventeen eighty six, followed by James Jem White, in Eighteen hundred, in London, and Reynell and son in Eighteen hundred twelve. 
So this is, we can say, a short history of advertising agencies. 
APS45_slides_still004   1.13-1.23
So what is the role of advertising agencies? 
What are the roles these agencies play in making our marketing and branding? 
APS45_slides_still005   1.24-2.54
Let's see this. 
Creating an advertisement on the basis of information gathered about the product. 
Doing research on the company and the product and reaction of the customers. 
Planning for the type of media to be used, when and where to be used and for how much time to be used. 
Taking the feedback from the client, as well as the customers and then deciding the further line of action. 
All companies can do this work by themselves. 
They can make ads, print or advertise them on television or other media places. 
They can manage the account also. 
Then why do they need an advertising agency? 
The reason behind hiring the advertising agencies by the companies are, 
Can you think what they could be? 
Okay, let me show you. 
The agencies are experts in this field. 
They have a team of different people for different functions like they have copywriters, art directors, and planners. 
The agencies make optimum use of these people, their experiences and their knowledge. 
They work with an objective and are very professional. 
Hiring them leads to saving the cost up to some extent. 
APS45_slides_still006   2.55-3.15
So let's see what the different types of agencies are. 
There are basically five types of advertising agencies. 
First, full service agencies, then interactive agencies, creative boutiques, media buying agencies, In-house agencies. 
Let's see all of them one by one. 
APS45_slides_still007   3.16-3.39
Full service agencies, we call them large size agencies also. 
They deal with all stages of advertisement. 
Different expert people for different departments. 
Start working from gathering data, analyzing it, and end on a payment of bills to the media people. 
APS45_slides_still008   3.40-4.03
All full service agencies can handle the marketing and advertising aspects of business. 
These usually include strategic planning, production, creativity, and innovation, as well as interactive marketing services via the internet. 
APS45_slides_still009   4.04-4.12
Different types of full service advertising agencies are modular agencies and In house agencies. 
Let's see what are those. 
APS45_slides_still010   4.13-5.08
There are different types of agencies, which are modular and in house. 
So what is a modular agency?
This type of agency sells its services on a piecemeal basis. 
A fee is charged according to the work done. 
In house agencies. 
These are owned completely by the advertiser. 
They can serve other clients, but with the consent of the current customer. 
The agency personnel include a highly skilled production team, a story artist that will create good and believable stories around your product and graphic designer to help in the web design.
It is therefore clear that a full service advertising agency is quite vital for marketing the products and services of an organization. 
APS45_slides_still011   5.09-5.21
Full service agencies reliability and efficiency. 
This can be taken on the parameters of creativity, strategy, communication, production, and analytics. 
APS45_slides_still012   5.22-10.13
Many people would then ask how to identify a reliable and efficient full service agency. 
There are certain factors that one needs to consider when hiring a full service agency and they include 
Creativity is the first parameter. 
You need to find out how creative the agency staff is. 
All their previous advertisements were creative enough? 
Search them online and see how they have done advertising and marketing for other organizations. 
Head on to see some of the comments from the people who once hired them. 
From this, you can be able to select which agency to hire for your work. 
They need to be versed in concept knowledge, copywriting, graphic designing, as well as brand engineering and studio works. 
Creativity can be seen in many ways. 
Whether the advertisement was creative enough to induce the people to buy the product or seek the attention or grab the attention. 
These are the things which can be checked. 
Then we talk about strategy. 
It is the second parameter. 
An excellent full service advertising agency must have a good strategic plan for how to market and advertise your product or services. 
They need to have perfect market analytical skills as well as a media strategy and brand positioning techniques. 
They should have a work plan that shows how they will position your product in the market or your service in the market. 
Because your service could be unique or could be an existing one, but you are dealing with this agency for the first time. 
So, you need to understand whether they have a strategy for doing this or not. 
Communication is a third parameter. 
Good communication skills are another thing to put into consideration when hiring a full service advertising agency. 
They need to be able to communicate to you and your client. 
They are the intermediary between you and your customers. 
Therefore, they need to have their communication up to the standard. 
If the communication is not correct, customers will not be able to understand or grab their attention towards your product. 
And they will not buy it, simply as that. 
See if they want to buy they need to be attracted towards your brand. 
And that's the role of communication. 
Then with our production. 
This is the fourth parameter. 
This includes digital printing, data processing and web development. 
The free service advertising agency must be good at production. 
So that they can be able to advertise and market your product in the right manner. 
If they are not able to get things printed properly or development of a Web designing is not proper, then can lead to loss of the attention which should be there for your product. 
But because of many mistakes it may happen. 
So whenever you are looking for this, one of the strategic points is production. 
Analytic. 
The agency must be able to analyze and produce simple reports to you at any time. 
They are supposed to point out any issues and address them as soon as they can. 
They should have a smart response capture system and dynamic business intelligence. 
See analytics is one of the important parts. 
Because if you are not able to analyze the importance of your advertisement for your client, or the reach of the advertisement, if you're not able to analyze properly, you will not be able to make an impactful advertising campaign for your clients. 
Anybody who wants to hire any agency should look into these parameters for a full time service agency.
APS45_slides_still013   10.14-10.28
Interactive agencies. 
They use modernized modes of communication using online advertisement, sending promotional messages on mobile phones etc. 
The ads produced are very interactive, having very new concept 
APS45_slides_still014   10.29-10.43
and very innovative. 
An agency offering a mix of web design, development, Internet Business Marketing, e business, ecommerce consulting is actually an interactive agency. 
APS45_slides_still015   10.44-10.59
Then creative boutiques. 
These are very creative and innovative ad makers. 
No further function is performed other than creating actual ads. 
Small sized agencies with their own copywriters, directors and creative people. 
APS45_slides_still016   11.00-12.09
Creative Boutique is an agency that provides only creative service. 
These specialized companies have developed in response to some client's desire to use only the creative talent of an outside provider, while maintaining the other functions internally. 
The client may seek outside creative talent for two reasons. 
First, because he wants an extra creative efforts. 
Second, maybe because his own employees have the in-house agency or the agency that he has appointed do not have sufficient skill in creativity. 
Because this can happen. 
The full service agencies also subcontract their creative work to these creative boutiques when they are very busy or want to avoid adding full time employees to their payrolls. 
Creative boutiques are usually found by members of the creative department of full service agencies, who leave the firm and take with them clients who also retain their creative talents. 
These boutiques generally perform creative functions on a fee basis. 
APS45_slides_still017   12.10-12.32
Media buying agencies. 
These agencies buy places for advertisement and sell it to the advertisers. 
They sell times in which advertisements will be placed, schedule slots at different television channels and radio stations. 
And finally, supervise or check whether the ad has been telecasted at the opted time and place or not. 
APS45_slides_still018   12.33-15.25
The specialty of purchasing advertising space on different types of media is with them. 
Media Buyers may purchase advertising space in newspaper or magazine or time slots on television or radio. 
They typically work for advertising agencies and media buying agencies. 
They may also be referred to as space buyers or time buyers, depending on the medium in which they work. 
Media Buyers are experts who are familiar with the cost of different types of media and the type and size of audience each media can reach. 
In advertising agencies, media buyers will often work alongside account executives to create a plan for reaching the most potential customers at the lower cost to the client. 
Once they decide on a plan, the agency must get the approval of the client before it is put into action. 
After approval media buyers go forward and negotiate agreements with newspapers, magazines, radio, Television to buy space or time for that client’s advertising. 
So their job is basically, to buy media space. 
For example, they want to give an advertisement on TV, on Star TV and they want to give during a popular soap opera, let's say, your movies shown on Star Plus on Saturdays on the nine o'clock slot. 
They want to have their advertisement in the middle of that. 
So that is where these companies come into picture. 
They pick up that slot and give it to the advertiser when he wants to advertise its particular advertisements over there.
The same way when you listen to a lot many advertisements on a radio you know FM like Ninety three point five, Ninety two point seven, Red FM, city radio, city FM all these channels buy or sell their slots. 
And it has been bought by the media companies or media agencies. 
Then they sell these slots to advertisers. 
For example, let's say Kurkure wants to give an ad on our radio channel, Radio City. 
So if they want to give an ad, let's say, between seven to nine, when most of the people are driving towards their office and listening to this particular FM station, because it will have more impact. 
And the same way when the people are leaving their offices around six o'clock, and reaching their house by eight thirty.
APS45_slides_still019   15.26-16.04
They want to get their advertisement during this particular slot. 
So these media agencies buy these slots, sometime in advance, and keep it with them till when somebody approaches them. 
And once he approached them, they quote the price, keeping their own margin and give it to the advertiser. 
So this is how the media agencies basically work. 
Apart from these agencies, there are some specialist agencies, which work for some special advertisements. 
These types of agencies need people of special knowledge in that field. 
For example, advertisements showing social messages, financial advertisements, or medicine or medical related advertisements. 
APS45_slides_still020   16.05-16.11
So this is what we talked about, the different types of advertising agencies.
Thank you.