Topic: ASM M4 5 Cross Promotions
ENG APS53 
Duration: 11:00
0.03-0.08
Hello everyone,
Welcome to class.
APS53_slides_still001     0.09-0.11
 today we are going to discuss cross promotion. 
APS53_slides_still002     0.12-0.25
So, what is cross promotion? 
Cross promotion is basically when two brands come together and do a promotion. 
For example, you can see in this particular advertisement that Coca Cola and McDonald's are promoting each other. 
APS53_slides_still003     0.26-0.41
Here the Coca Cola has been shown along with the burger of McDonald's. 
That is why they say ‘You so want one’ Big Mac extra value meal, where french fries is there, the burger is there and the Coca Cola is there. 
The Coca Cola’s logo is prominently shown in that advertisement. 
APS53_slides_still004     0.42-1.43
A cross promotion is happening anytime a customer is offered a product or service because he or she purchased a different product or service. 
For example, a buyer purchasing a shirt may be shown a picture of a pair of pants that coordinate with the shirt, or a buyer of a computer program may receive an email offering a reduced price on a guide to using that program. 
As an example, a look at the large airline website shows that customers may earn mileage points towards free flights by purchasing air travel or through many other actions, including using their credit cards for purchase, renting a car or staying at a hotel which is a partner of the airline. 
Buying flowers and using a specific promotional code, signing up for satellite TV through a website link, buying insurance through the partner insurance company. 
These are the ways where the cross promotion can happen. 
APS53_slides_still005     1.44-1.58
If you look at this advertisement, it is where Bournvita has been shown in the movie of Hrithik Roshan. 
Where is the cross promotion happening? 
Here the promotion is happening of the movie as well as the Bournvita. 
APS53_slides_still006     1.59-2.48
The cross promotion is a cross media marketing of a brand. 
For example, Oprah Winfrey's promotion on her television show of her books, magazines, and websites. 
Cross promotion may involve two or more companies working together in promoting a service or product in a way that benefits both. 
For example, a mobile phone network may work together with a popular musical artist and package some of their songs as exclusive ringtones. 
Promoting these ringtones can benefit both the network and the artist. 
So, basically, co-marketing and co-branding are particular forms of cross promotion. 
Disney channels do a lot of these kinds of cross promotion. 
APS53_slides_still007     2.49-3.06
Forms of cross promotion. 
Related offers, joint newsletters, joint advertisements, joint contests, co-produce an event, frequent buyer cards, exchange display or ad space. 
APS53_slides_still008     3.07-3.39
So, if you see, this particular advertisement shown in the slide where the crush is a drink, which is shown with the Fantastic Four movie. 
All the characters have been shown as drinking different flavors of the crush. 
For example, the thing is drinking or promoting a Crush orange, where the Invisible Woman is with Crush strawberry, where Mr. Fantastic is with Crush grape, and the Human Torch is with Crush cherry. 
APS53_slides_still009     3.40-4.55
Cross promotion comes in different forms. 
First is the related form. 
A company can target buyers, either during or after the purchasing process with suggestions on related products. 
Joint newsletter is the second. 
A newsletter can be a fair amount of work. 
So companies may group together to produce one that is of interest to all their customers. 
It reduces the workload since each company must produce only a portion of the newsletter, and also give companies the chance to present their information to new prospective customers, since the newsletter will be sent to the customers of all the companies participating. 
Joint advertisements. 
Advertisements can be expensive and are sometimes out of reach of the companies. 
In the joint advertisement the companies involved share the cost of the ad. 
And the ad is designed to highlight all of their companies either to a combined ad, referring to multiple products, or by splitting up the ad space into sub ads that each company can then fill.
APS53_slides_still010     4.56-5.25
Here, it is shown where the American Express is promoting National Geographic book Traveler, where this Land Rover is promoting the Da Vinci Code Movie. 
Then we saw Pizza Hut, which is offering that ninja turtle movie promotion. 
With the Olympics, because Coca Cola was the official drink for the London Olympics of Two thousand twelve and their cans were promoting the Olympics. 
APS53_slides_still011     5.26-6.53
Joint contests. 
Companies may jointly sponsor a contest or sweepstakes. 
The notification goes out to all of each company's customers and social media fans. 
So, all the participants’ information is exposed to all of their partners’ contacts as well as their own. 
The cost of promotion can be reduced for the size enhanced since the participating companies will share the cost. 
Co-produce an event. 
Producing a seminar or webinar can be a time consuming and expensive event. 
Companies may team up to produce events where each company produces a section of the event. 
Frequent buyer cards. 
Companies may produce a frequent buyer card program where a purchaser at one company is given a card that provides specials or discounts at that place of business or at other companies.
Exchange display or ad space. 
Companies may exchange display or ad space where each company has the opportunity to set up a product display or post ads or brochures at the other company's place of business. 
APS53_slides_still012     6.54-7.15
Advantages of cross promotion. 
Cost promotion is less, a win-win situation for both parties. 
Cost promotion marketing is the easiest and often one of the most successful marketing strategies. 
Both businesses can promote themselves simultaneously. 
APS53_slides_still013     7.16-7.33
If you look at this advertisement, where Mountain Dew is promoting the movie Batman. 
It says ‘go inside Gotham City and rule the streets with dew.’ 
APS53_slides_still014     7.34-10.20
So, the benefits of cross promoting. 
Your company can save money by sharing expenses with a cross promotion partner. 
It can exchange customers. 
By exposing customers to one another’s product and services, you can augment your client time. 
You can increase it, because it increases the chances of getting more customers. 
Most likely the two companies will be more readily remembered because of the uniqueness of their combined approach. 
Your company will gain greater credibility depending on the credibility for your cross promotion partners. 
Cross promotions are not everyday affairs. 
This means each company can take advantage of publicity opportunities, such as interviews, press releases, etc. 
A customer will visit your web page and stores more often because there is more they are being offered. 
Cross promotion offers opportunities to try something different and novel. 
So I'm sure you must be able to understand what is cross promotion. 
In the cross promotion basically, two companies come together and bond on one single product or two different products bond together. 
For example, Citibank is selling their credit card with the logo of Indian oil. 
Because Citibank and Indian Oil have a tie-up with each other. 
When somebody is buying that particular credit card, which is exclusively meant for promoting Citibank and Indian Oil jointly. 
That is what we call Citibank Petro mile or Petro card, where a customer using a Citibank card at Indian outlets is getting more reward points and which increases the loyalty towards Indian oil as well as using a Citibank card. 
So, this is one of the examples where the companies do these kinds of promotions, which have always been beneficial for both of them. 
Because maybe one company’s clientele will start buying the product of the other company, which they were not buying earlier.
I just gave you the example of Citibank and Indian Oil. 
So, earlier, the person who was not having a Citibank Indian Oil card was not taking petrol from Indian oil.
He might be taking petrol from Hindustan petroleum or Bharat petroleum. 
In that case if he's using a Citibank Petro card, he will start taking from Indian Oil petrol pumps using the card to take petrol. 
In such cases it will increase the customer base of Indian oil. 
APS53_slides_still015     10.21-10.52
And same way, maybe a customer was earlier buying petrol from Indian oil but not using a Citibank card. 
He was using some other bank’s card. 
When he comes to know the benefits of taking a Citibank card while buying petrol from an Indian Oil petrol pump, he might take a card of Citibank which will increase the clientele of Citibank. 
So, it is basically a win-win situation for both the companies. 
Because it exposes its own clients to some other and they get more clientele.
This is how cross promotion is always beneficial for both the companies.
Thank you.